# Personalized News Recommendation System Using NLP
**Motivation:**
With a collective interest, group 5 decides to use a news dataset to examine news website users’ browsing patterns and apply their knowledge to build a model which helps websites recommend articles to viewers based on the patterns. Throughout the project, group 5 is expected to clean the data and apply unsupervised machine-learning techniques to help the publishers. They would also like to improve their skills along the way. 

**Problem Statement:**
Digital news has made its presence over 40 years. Since online news websites make it easier for people to focus on certain topics and search for articles, delivering the right content to the right audience becomes crucial for publishers. Group 5 aims to build a model that enhances the absorption of preferred information while assisting news websites in retaining their audience efficiently. 


**Dataset & Data Source:**
Our selected dataset is called Microsoft News Dataset (MIND), a large-scale dataset for news recommendation research. The dataset was publicly released on ACL 2020, and was collected from anonymized behavior logs of Microsoft News website over a six-week period. This dataset provides a benchmark in an area that previously lacked high-quality datasets, thereby supporting subsequent research. 
The dataset contains over 160k English news articles and more than 15 million impression logs generated by 1 million users, and was pre-splitted into training, testing and validation sets. In each set, there are 2 files(dataframes) that need to be considered: news(around 70 MB for train & test) and behavior(around 1.3 GB for train & test). Please see Appendix 1 for detailed information.
The link to get the dataset is as follows: MIND (msnews.github.io)
